so he plays this trap move if root d5
then Bishop c4 black ignores that of
course c6 and now c5 is a week so the
Knights tied down to the protection of
the c5 porn so caught off froze in a
check and plays King f2 now black
increases the pleasure Bishop g4 brings
black brings the king and the root comes
down more aggressively and after this
rook d5 so the rook can now come to d
free to attack that night potentially so
root d free and now King d7 protecting
c6 and now the bishop can also come back
to a taxi five without the night
protecting on be free so white is
falling to bits now gradually but surely
and in this position can't often heard
enough after Bishop g7 so he puts that
down to two what a laugh of extent my
thinking is based on general principles
and plans okay he overestimated a
position which looked as though black
wasn't doing much blacks position seems
to be you know most of his pieces at one
point in this game we're all on the back
row and in general in theory you play
the fianchetto variation and you don't
expect to be hacked on the King side but
you know when black gets in fi van def
for you know the alarm bells should
start ringing that this kind of position
is dangerous especially blacks you know
still got that Queens Bishop so you know
black was already doing really quite
well here so I'm not really convinced by
this example but this is the prelude to
cut off training so what he did as a
result of this and other losses and he
also consider all the time trouble he
was getting into into what he did was
getting a selection of all these really
complicated positions of annotated games
and looking at the annotators analysis
and then doing his own analysis and
seeing how they were different and
apparently you know this training method
of comparing you know his moves to the
annotators
you know he gradually got more and more
you know better at that matching the
person who had annotated the game and
let's let's see that's this quote here
so he would sometimes spend half an hour
on this task you know very complicated
positions and at first there was a big
discrepancy in favor of the annotators
and then he learned apparently to widen
the scope and delineate each variation
with considerable exactitude so caught
up is quite boastful here and actually
he analyzed without moving the pieces
just to make it like a tournament game
so in this way cut off exam is lots of
tricky and complicated positions okay
and we we have now in this third example
which what I'll leave for another series
if you're interested but basically he
takes a very well annotated position and
you know he finds an initial brilliant
move a really subtle move but the reason
I'm not convinced by any of this or
rather I'm only convinced as the
candidate move system as a training
system of comparing two annotators
that's what I'm convinced about at the
moment I'm not convinced about his
system during a real-time game to be
able to create this labyrinth for
variations I just don't think that's
possible only in very forcing positions
do you get this like if then if then if
then because only then you can guarantee
that you're going to end up this in this
position five moves deep or ten moves
deep because it most of it was forcing
of course then you can guarantee that
you're less likely to be relevant
analysis but in quiet positions I you
know their strategic trump cards to
consider here you know black in this
game had clear strategic trump cards
this dark squared bishop this active
rook later and you know this advancing
space with f5 and f4 leaving h3 as a
target there are lots of strategic cards
which all black had to do from blacks
point of view was find relevant
resources for exploiting those strategic
trump cards that's a shortcut to this
whole labyrinth of variations business
which cut off seems to be emphasizing as
this is something you're doing real time
create this big labyrinth when the only
evidence he's provided so far is that he
took these examples in our first example
series that the master was stumbling
from variation to variation played a
safe move got blown away because of
night f-14 that other series about here
it's it's as though you know basically
cut off is advocating a training system
based on the use of annotated games of
other people's games and I learn from
doing chess videos by the way on YouTube
it's always much easier to annotate your
own games because you are aware of the
four processes you are aware of the
critical variations you spend that hour
or two in your club playing game or in a
torment playing that game of course you
are aware of the variations and that's
what I find interesting now of what cut
off right because by saying that he's
looking at all the world annotated games
he's basically trying to test his
ability to analyze with someone that was
intimate to that game and that is very
clever that kind of you know test he was
putting himself under and if he was
getting more accurate at doing that
that's good it was training his
intuition but you know in modern times
you can train your intuition by solving
lots of puzzles their online sites for
solving puzzles that's similar because
then you're looking a position which
you're thrown into detached from as an
observer and trying to find the winning
combination so you know why isn't
solving puzzles just as good as this
rigorous training exercise you know for
improving your tactics for improving
your analysis of variations you know or
reading books um without moving the
pieces just just reading them apparently
you know Tony moles did that he just
read chess books and that improved his
ability to calculate variations so there
where various ways of improving the
analytical side but some it's this ad
vacations a real time thinking process
during games especially when there's not
much going on I just don't buy into it
at the moment from this second example
game and this this
fragments which caught of shows here I
just think he was positionally outplayed
in this opening and he suffered the
consequences you know his pin cheto
variation in the Kings engine wasn't as
safe and solid as he had originally
thought I hope you enjoyed that please
leave any comments on YouTube thanks
very much